JT V3 edits (#3759)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/operate/get-started/supported-hardware.md

layout: "docs"
type: "docs"
no_list: true
description: "Use supported hardware with your machine."
modulescript: true
---

Viam supports a wide variety of sensors, cameras, motors, robotic arms, and other physical hardware.
Viam also supports various software services such as [data capture](/data-ai/get-started/capture-sync/), [computer vision](/data-ai/ai/create-dataset/), and [motion planning](/operate/mobility/move-arm/), designed to integrate seamlessly with the hardware driver modules.

> Any hardware that is not already supported by a Viam {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="module" >}} can be added into Viam's system of modular resources by [creating a new module](../other-hardware/) that provides a driver for the hardware.

Reviewer: just because some of the cameras etc will stay builtin as far as I know... 
```suggestion
Any hardware that is not already supported by Viam can be added into Viam's system of modular resources by [creating a new module](../other-hardware/) that provides a driver for the hardware.
```

Author: I almost want people to think of every component as being supported by a module though since they might as well be, for understanding's sake? I think this change makes it sound more like there's a bigger difference between built in and modular.

You can also create a module to support new software-only functionality.

> In addition to physical hardware, there are "virtual" hardware modules that do not directly drive any physical hardware, but rather augment physical hardware with another layer of abstraction, or add functionality that has little to do with hardware, for example:

Reviewer: best to try to describe what something is rather than what it isn't. I think ok here to leave that to the examples though
```suggestion
In addition to physical hardware, there are "virtual" hardware modules that do not directly drive any physical hardware, but rather augment physical hardware with another layer of abstraction, or add other functionality, for example:
```

- [A "camera" that takes a camera feed from a physical camera, and crops it, overlays it, or otherwise transforms the output](/components/camera/transform/)
- [A "sensor" that allows you to designate a primary sensor and backup sensors in case of failure](https://github.com/viam-modules/failover)
- [A ChatGPT integration module](https://github.com/jeremyrhyde/chat-gpt-module)

> - [A "sensor" that returns all active I2C addresses as sensor readings](https://github.com/michaellee1019/i2cdetect)

Reviewer: Three are probably enough unless you think this fourth one adds soemthign the others don't?
```suggestion
```

These software-only "hardware" modules implement the same [component APIs](/dev/reference/apis/#component-apis) as physical hardware modules.

{{% alert title="In this page" color="tip" %}}

- [What hardware is already supported?](#supported-hardware)
- [Add supported hardware to my machine's configuration](#configure-hardware-on-your-machine)

{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="See also" color="tip" %}}

- [Support other hardware by creating a new module](../other-hardware/)

> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: I think you may want to remove these. You may also want to postpone explaining virtual hardware till later on the page. It currently takes too long to get to the part where you do things

Author: Put it into a little details expander-LMK what you think of that.

| `water_pump` | [GitHub repo](https://github.com/viamrobotics/micro-rdk/tree/main/examples/modular-drivers/src). | No |

## Configure hardware on your machine

After installing `viam-server` or `viam-micro-server` on your computer or microcontroller, you can configure hardware components on your machine's page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com):

1. Click the **+** button on your machine's **CONFIGURE** tab.
1. Click **Component**, then select from available components from the Viam Registry (as well as built-in resources).
1. Use the link to the module README to find information on configuring that specific component.

   {{<gif webm_src="/integrate/configure.webm" mp4_src="/integrate/configure.mp4" alt="Configuring a board and ultrasonic sensor." max-width="600px">}}

   When you add a modular resource _from the registry_, the module that provides it is automatically added at the same time, generating a configuration card for the modular resource and a separate one for the module.
   If you add a built-in component, there will only be a configuration card for the component.

> ### Modular resource configuration details

Reviewer: I wonder whether this and the module config details should stay in reference content. I think most of the time this info here (and the info for module config) will only be used as reference.

Author: Agreed. Will move.
